title: Simple Flask Blog 
alt: howtothis





Let's start this site off with some meta content in the form of a tutorial about making... this very site! As this whole thing started as a way to repurpose literally two page elements that I thought looked nice, this was made quickly, easily, and does the minimum it has to.  So you can do it, too! 

If you don't want the in-depth explanation and would like to dig through the code everything can be found in my [repo](https://github.com/Roxerg/miniblog). 

### The Very Main Stuff

This means backend, also known as the fun part! Here we're using  `flask` for serving **everything**.  

So, let's start by getting it

`>> pip install flask`

As this is a personal blog I felt like using a database at all is a bit of an overkill, so we will be storing posts in `.md` files and for rendering HTML out of them we'll use the handy Flask-FlatPages library:

`>> pip install Flask-FlatPages`

Time to make our (at the time of writing) **only** Python script for this project! 

Starting with Flask and Flask-FlatPages initializations:

``` init
app = Flask(__name__)
app.config.from_object(__name__)
pages = FlatPages(app)

site_url = "your site"
```

Then the main entrypoint. Flask-FlatPages automatically scans the `pages` directory in our project folder for any text files. We can iterate through it and only pick the files with `'published' in p.meta` to pick out only the posts that have a publishing date. This allows us to conveniently store unfinished posts in the same location. We also want to sort posts we will be displaying based on their publishing dates.  With that, our method will look like this:

``` main
@app.route("/")
def main(name=None):

    posts = []

    posts = [p for p in pages if 'published' in p.meta]
    posts.sort(key=lambda x: ts(x.meta["published"]), reverse=True)


    titles.sort(key=lambda x: ts(x.meta["published"]), reverse=True)
    return render_template("index.html", name=name, posts=posts)
```

So this is the main page, which will display **all** of our posts. We will need to think about loading more posts on scroll or on click when we have more than 2-3 posts to help with loading times and not to force the user to load everything when they don't want to.  That is for future us to worry about. For now, let's add an entrypoint to a specific blogpost:

``` single
@app.route('/<path:path>/')
def single(path=None):
    posts = []

    posts = [p for p in pages if (path == p.meta["alt"]) and ('published' in p.meta)]
    
    return render_template("single.html", name=None, posts=posts, home=site_url)
```

We are filtering only the post with a specific `alt`property which should be unique for each post and will serve as an url for that post.  We are also sending the `site_url` for redirecting purposes.

Finally, let's actually make this baby run the app when we run the script:

``` run
if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run()
```

Next, let's look at the **bare minimum** we need in `index.html` for it to serve our posts:

```html
<html>
    <body>
        {% for post in posts %}
        	{{ post.meta.title }} 
        	{{ post.meta.published }} 
        	{{ post | safe }} <!-- 'trust' content of post to render as html -->
        {% endfor %}
    </body>
</html>
```

